epple2, the Emulated aPPLE ][

See INSTALL for instructions on building and installing a
normal distribution.

epple2 is an emulator of the Apple ][ and Apple ][ plus
computers from Apple, Inc. It strives to faithfully simulate
much of the internal workings of the original Apple ][,
including the individual cycles of the 6502 CPU, and the
NTSC video signal generation, including the "strange orange
line", other color anomalies, and the "floating data bus."
The CPU and video timings are synchronized, and the emulator
is designed to run at the same speed as the original
machine (if your computer is fast enough). It also emulates
several different types of television screens and monitors
for the display.

It includes emulation of a Disk ][ controller card, a ROM
firmware card, and a RAM "Language" card, as well as a
simple clock card.

epple2 is written in C++, and is designed to be buildable
Windows (with Cygwin or Visual C++ 6.0) or Linux (gcc).

The SDL library (http://www.libsdl.org) is the only dependency
of epple2 (see below).



RUNNING
-------
SDL:
To run epple2, you need to have the SDL libraries installed.
See http://www.libsdl.org for information on SDL.
You'll need to download and install the "Runtime Libraries"
for your platform (Win32 or Linux).

ROM:
With epple2 and SDL, you can run the emulator, but it won't
do too much without the appropriate Apple ROM code. You can
use ROM images from your own original Apple ][ (plus), or
you can find some on the Internet (check the Asimov Apple
repository).
Alternatively, you can build the ROMs yourself from assembly
language source files I've created; these are available in
the apple2src project. (See that project for details).

Disks:
You will also probably want floppy disk images. Again, you can
download some from the Internet, especially from Asimov. The
epple2 only reads NIBBLE IMAGES. If you only have DOS images,
you will need to comvert them to nibble images; you can use
CiderPress (http://ciderpress.sourceforge.net) for this.

BUILDING
--------
If you want to build epple2 from the source distribution,
you'll need to have the SDL development libraries installed.
See http://www.libsdl.org for information on SDL.
You'll need to download and install the "Development Libraries"
for your platform (Win32 or Linux).

Developers fetching from the repository directly should
execute the bootstrap script first.
